# 2. Linked List and Array

## Queue

- Leetcode 225. Implement Stack using Queues
- Leetcode 346. Moving Average from Data Stream
- Leetcode 281. Zigzag Iterator
- Leetcode 1429. First Unique Number
- Leetcode 54. Spiral Matrix
- Leetcode 362. Design Hit Counter

## Stack

- Leetcode 232. Implement Queue using Stacks
- Leetcode 150. Evaluate Reverse Polish Notation
- Leetcode 224. Basic Calculator II (I, II, III, IV)
- Leetcode 20. Valid Parentheses
- Leetcode 1472. Design Browser History
- Leetcode 1209. Remove All Adjacent Duplicates in String II
- Leetcode 1249. Minimum Remove to Make Valid Parentheses
- Leetcode 735. Asteroid Collision



题目分类	题目编号
用栈访问最后若干元素	682、71、388
栈与计算器	150、227、224
栈与括号匹配	20、636、591、32
递归	385、341、394

## Linked List
### Tricks
- When dealing with Linked list, use a new pointer that points to the real head.

| Problem | Notes |
|||
| 2. Add Two Numbers | Create a pointer that points to the real head. |

{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC2.md" %}

## Lecture 2. Linked List (14)

0002. Add Two Numbers
0019. Remove Nth Node From End of List
0024. Swap Nodes in Pairs
0061. Rotate List
0114. Flatten Binary Tree to Linked List
0142. Linked List Cycle II
0143. Reorder List
0382. Linked List Random Node
0707. Design Linked List
1019. Next Greater Node In Linked List
1367. Linked List in Binary Tree
剑指 Offer II 021. 删除链表的倒数第 n 个结点
剑指 Offer II 026. 重排链表
面试题 02.05. Sum Lists LCCI


= Linked List

链表类问题的基础是：增删查改、快慢指针、反转。

== 基础题目：
- Leetcode 206. Reverse Linked List
- Leetcode 876. Middle of the Linked List

== 进阶题目:
- Leetcode 160. Intersection of Two Linked Lists
- Leetcode 141. Linked List Cycle (Linked List Cycle II)
- Leetcode 92. Reverse Linked List II
- Leetcode 328. Odd Even Linked List



题目分类	题目编号
链表的删除	203、237、19
链表的遍历	430
链表的旋转与反转	61、24、206、92、25
链表高精度加法	2、445
链表的合并	21、23

## Monotonic Stack

Today's topic is **Monotonic Stack**.

- <a href="https://leetcode-cn.com/tag/monotonic-stack/problemset/" target="_blank">Monotonic Stack Problem Set</a>
- <a href="https://leetcode-cn.com/tag/monotonic-queue/problemset/" target="_blank">Monotonic Queue Problem Set</a>
- Essentials: LC496, LC402, LC321, LC769.


## Introduction
### Background
Suppose you are given an (unsorted) array $A$ of length $n$ and a given index $i ~(\le n)$. Your task is to find the next index $j ~(i < j < n)$ such that $A[j] > A[i]$. If no such index exists, return -1.

For example, for $[3,1,4,2]$ and index $0$ (number $3$), the next bigger number is $4$.

The algorithm for the above is trivial. You just look one by one after $A[i]$ and find the first one who is bigger than $A[i]$. The algorithm has time complexity $O(n)$ and space complexity $O(1)$.

Now, suppose I'd want you to query for each one of the elements in the array. What do you do? Naively, you treat them as separate problems and call the same single-query function $n$ times, however you algorithm is $O(n^2)$. Can we do better?

### Reverse Thinking and State Tagging
One trick is to think the problem reversely. Instead of finding an answer for each one of the queries, we can find for one particular answer multiple queries. That is, for each element in the array, we ask the question: which elements to its *left* are smaller? With this, we turn a problem of type **many-to-one** (many queries to one answer) to **one-to-many** (one answer to many queries).

Another idea behind monotonic stack is to tag the queries with three states: **unseen** (default state), **scheduled**, and **processed**.

### Monotonic Stack: Template

=== "Python"
    ``` Python
    #
    # Monotonic stack to find the next bigger number.
    #
    def monotonicStack(arr):
        next_bigger_number = ['#'] * len(arr)

        stack = []
        for i, n in enumerate(arr):
            while stack and n > stack[-1][1]:
                idx, value = stack.pop()
                # do something with (idx, value)
                next_bigger_number[idx] = n
            stack.append((i, n))

        return next_bigger_number

    arr = [1,3,4,6,2,1,4,5]
    print(monotonicStack(arr))    
    ```             

### What types of problems can be solved by Monotonic Stack?
Monotonic stack is a data structure that is able to:

1) Find the *nearest* event (not the *furthest*) for each of the $n$ elements in an array of size $n$ in $O(n)$ time and $O(1)$ space.
2) Find the smallest/biggest subsequence.

## Problems
{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC496.md" %}
{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC1475.md" %}
{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC402.md" %}
{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC316.md" %}
{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC1081.md" %}
{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC321.md" %}
{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC769.md" %}
{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC768.md" %}

## Heap (1)

<a href="https://leetcode-cn.com/tag/heap-priority-queue/problemset/" target="_blank">堆题库（共118题）</a>

## Introduction
- Leetcode 973. K Closest Points
- Leetcode 347. Top k Largest Elements
- Leetcode 23. Merge K Sorted Lists
- Leetcode 264. Ugly Number II
- Leetcode 1086. High Five
- Leetcode 68. Merge Sorted Arrays
- Leetcode 692. Top K Frequent Words
- Leetcode 378. Kth Smallest Element in a Sorted Matrix
- Leetcode 295. Find Median from Data Stream
- Leetcode 767. Reorganize String
- Leetcode 1438. Longest Continuous Subarray With Absolute Diff Less Than or Equal to Limit
- Leetcode 895. Maximum Frequency Stack

## Problems
| ID   | Title | Difficulty |
||||
| 1094  | Car Pooling | Medium|

{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC1094.md" %}


## Two Pointers （252）

| Problem | Notes |
|||
| 3. Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters | Lastseen hashmap. Also DP. |

{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC3.md" %}

Today's topic is **Two Pointers**, also known as **Sliding Window**. Deque is a special case of two pointers.

<a href="https://leetcode.cn/tag/two-pointers/problemset/" target="_blank">双指针题库</a>, <a href="https://leetcode.cn/tag/sliding-window/problemset/" target="_blank">滑动窗口题库</a>

<a href="https://leetcode-cn.com/tag/sliding-window/problemset/" target="_blank">滑动窗口题库（共76题）</a>

<a href="https://leetcode-cn.com/tag/two-pointers/problemset/" target="_blank">滑动窗口题库（共176题）</a>

<a href="https://leetcode-cn.com/leetbook/detail/sliding-window-and-two-pointers/" target="_blank">滑动窗口与双指针教程</a>


## 基础知识

常见双指针算法分为三类，同向（即两个指针都相同一个方向移动），背向（两个指针从相同或者相邻的位置出发，背向移动直到其中一根指针到达边界为止），相向（两个指针从两边出发一起向中间移动直到两个指针相遇）

### 背向双指针：(基本上全是回文串的题)

- Leetcode 409. Longest Palindrome
- Leetcode 125. Valid Palindrome
- Leetcode 5. Longest Palindromic Substring

### 相向双指针：(以two sum为基础的一系列题)

- Leetcode 1. Two Sum (这里使用的是先排序的双指针算法，不同于hashmap做法)
- Leetcode 167. Two Sum II - Input array is sorted
- Leetcode 15. 3Sum
- Leetcode 16. 3Sum Closest
- Leetcode 18. 4Sum
- Leetcode 454. 4Sum II
- Leetcode 277. Find the Celebrity

### 同向双指针：（个人觉得最难的一类题）

- Leetcode 283. Move Zeroes
- Leetcode 26. Remove Duplicate Numbers in Array
- Leetcode 395. Longest Substring with At Least K Repeating Characters
- Leetcode 340. Longest Substring with At Most K Distinct Characters
- Leetcode 76. Minimum Window Substring
- Leetcode 3. Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters


题目分类	题目编号
头尾指针	345、680、167、15、16、18、11、42
同向双指针、滑动窗口	27、26、80、83、82、611、187、643、674、209、3、438、567、424、76、30
分段双指针	86、328、160、88、475
快慢指针	141、142、143、234、457、287


## Two Pointers
| Problem | Notes |
|||
| LC11. Container With Most Water | Two Pointers |

{% include "LeetCodeSol/LC11.md" %}

1.    3Sum
2.    4Sum
3.    Next Permutation
4.    Find First and Last Position of Element in Sorted Array
5.    Combination Sum
6.    Combination Sum II
7.    Trapping Rain Water
8.    Jump Game II
9.    Permutations
10.   Permutations II
11.   Jump Game
12.   Subsets
13.   Longest Consecutive Sequence
14.   Maximum Product Subarray
15.   Find Minimum in Rotated Sorted Array
16.   Find Minimum in Rotated Sorted Array II
17.   Find Peak Element
18.   Rotate Array
19.   Minimum Size Subarray Sum
20.   Kth Largest Element in an Array
21.   Contains Duplicate III
22.   Product of Array Except Self
23.   H-Index
24.   H-Index II
25.   Find the Duplicate Number
26.   Longest Increasing Subsequence
27.   Range Sum Query - Mutable
28.   Top K Frequent Elements
29.   Find K Pairs with Smallest Sums
30.   Combination Sum IV
31.   Partition Equal Subset Sum
32.   Maximum XOR of Two Numbers in an Array
33.   Find All Duplicates in an Array
34.   4Sum II
35.   132 Pattern
36.   Increasing Subsequences
37.   Target Sum
38.   Continuous Subarray Sum
39.   Subarray Sum Equals K
40.   Array Nesting
41.   Shortest Unsorted Continuous Subarray
42.   Non-decreasing Array
43.   Partition to K Equal Sum Subsets
44.   Subarray Product Less Than K
45.   Maximum Length of Repeated Subarray
46.   Number of Subarrays with Bounded Maximum
47.   Friends Of Appropriate Ages
48.   Keys and Rooms
49.   Shortest Subarray with Sum at Least K
50.   Koko Eating Bananas
51.   Sum of Subarray Minimums
52.   Sort an Array
53.   Binary Subarrays With Sum
54.   Minimum Increment to Make Array Unique
55.   Most Stones Removed with Same Row or Column
56.   Subarray Sums Divisible by K
57.   Longest Turbulent Subarray
58.   Sum of Even Numbers After Queries
59.   Capacity To Ship Packages Within D Days
60.   Maximum Sum of Two Non-Overlapping Subarrays
61.   Partition Array for Maximum Sum
62.   Distant Barcodes
63.   Find in Mountain Array
64.   Corporate Flight Bookings
65.   K-Concatenation Maximum Sum
66.   Count Number of Nice Subarrays
67.   Greatest Sum Divisible by Three
68.   Group the People Given the Group Size They Belong To
69.   Reduce Array Size to The Half
70.   Minimum Number of Days to Make m Bouquets
71.   Check If Array Pairs Are Divisible by k
72.   Number of Sub-arrays With Odd Sum
73.   Maximum Length of Subarray With Positive Product
74.   Furthest Building You Can Reach
75.   Max Number of K-Sum Pairs
76.   Minimum Elements to Add to Form a Given Sum
77.   Maximum Subarray Min-Product
78.   Find the Longest Valid Obstacle Course at Each Position
79.   Array With Elements Not Equal to Average of Neighbors