# 0. Basics

## Definitions
- A **program** consists of one or more **files**.
- A **name** is an identifier which consists an arbitrarily long sequence of letters and digits.
- A **type** defines a set of possible values and a set of operations.
- A **declaration** introduces one or more names into a program.
- An **object** is some memory that holds a value of some type. Also, an **object** is a region of storage. A **named object** has a storage class that determines its lifetime.
- A **value** is a set of bits interpreted according to a type.
- A **variable** is a named object. Variable is generally used to refer to instances of scalar data types, whereas **instances** of other types are usually called objects.
- A **translation unit** is a file after preprocessing. **Preprocessing** is controlled by directives introduced by lines having `#` as the first character.


## Scope, Type, Storage, and Linkage
- Scope (local, global, namespace) + Type (const) + Storage(automatic, dynamic, static-internal, static-external) + Linkage(No linkage, internal, external). For example,

``` C++
// i is a `global` `const int` that has
// `static storage` and `external linkage`.
extern const int i;
```     

- Rules:
    - A header file only contains extern declarations of variables — never static or unqualified variable definitions.
    - A source file never contains extern declarations of variables — source files always include the (sole) header that declares them.
    - The source file that defines the variable also includes the header to ensure that the definition and the declaration are consistent.

Internal and external linkage in C++: <http://www.goldsborough.me/c/c++/linker/2016/03/30/19-34-25-internal_and_external_linkage_in_c++/>
Clockwise/Spiral Rule: <http://c-faq.com/decl/spiral.anderson.html>
C++ FAQ: <https://isocpp.org/faq>


## Conversions
Narrowing conversions lose information when you use `=`, but not with `{}`.

## Function Type
The type of a function consists of its return type and the sequence of its argument types.
``` C++
// type: double(const vector<double>&, int)
double get(const vector<double>& vec, int index);
```
For a member function, the name of the class is also part of the function type:
``` C++
// type: char& String::(int)
char& String::operator[](int index);
```